# dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_mask_pl
## Delphix Compliance Services (DCS) for Azure - Databricks to Databricks Masking Pipeline

This pipeline will perform masking of data from your Databricks Delta Lake from one Delta Lake to another.

### Prerequisites

1. Configure the hosted metadata database and associated Azure SQL service (version `V2024.01.01.0`+).
1. Configure the DCS for Azure REST service.
1. Configure the Azure Data Lake Storage service associated with your Databricks source data.
1. Configure the Azure Databricks Delta Lake service associated with your Databricks Deltalake source data.


### Importing
There are several linked services that will need to be selected in order to perform the masking of your Databricks
instance.

These linked services types are needed for the following steps:

`Azure Data Lake Storage` (source) - Linked service associated with Databricks source data. This will be used for the
following steps:
* Switch On Copy Methodology And Supported Write (Switch activity)
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_mask_df/DatabricksSource (dataFlow)
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_copy_df/DatabricksSource (dataFlow)

`Azure Data Lake Storage` (sink) - Linked service associated with Databricks sink data. This will be used for the
following steps:
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_mask_df/DatabricksSink (dataFlow)
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_copy_df/DatabricksSink (dataFlow)

`Azure Databricks Delta Lake` (source) - Linked service associated with Databricks Delta Lake. This will be used for the
following steps:
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_for_mask_query_ds (Azure Databricks Delta Lake dataset)
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_copy_ds (Azure Databricks Delta Lake dataset)

`Azure SQL` (metadata) - Linked service associated with your hosted metadata store. This will be used for the following
steps:
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_metadata_mask_ds (Azure SQL Database dataset)
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_mask_params_df/Ruleset (dataFlow)
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_mask_params_df/TypeMapping (dataFlow)

`REST` (DCS for Azure) - Linked service associated with calling DCS for Azure. This will be used for the following
steps:
* dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_mask_df (dataFlow)

### How It Works
* Select Tables That Require Masking
  * Choose, based on what is present in the metadata data store, which tables require masking
    * For each table that requires masking:
      * Get the sink table's details
        * If the table can be written to (i.e. the Data Factory backend supports this table writer version)
          * Get the metadata needed for the sink table
          * Call the `dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_mask_params_df` data flow to generate masking parameters
          * Call the `dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_mask_df` data flow, passing in parameters as generated by
            the generate masking parameters dataflow
        * If the table cannot be written to (i.e. the Data Factory backend doesn't support this table writer version)
          * Append the table name to the `TABLES_UNABLE_TO_MASK` variable
          * Provide a `400` status error code to indicate the failure of this table (with the appropriate message)
* Select Tables Without Required Masking. This is done by querying the metadata store.
  * Filter If Copy Unmask Enabled. This is done by applying a filter based on the value of `P_COPY_UNMASKED_TABLES`
    * For Each Table With No Masking. Provided we have any rows left after applying the filter
      * Get Sink Table Details No Masking. Query Databricks for sink table details
      * Get Sink Table Metadata No Masking. Query Metadata store to construct metadata information for sink table
      * Switch On Copy Methodology And Supported Write. Evaluate whether and how to copy data to the sink table
        * Default - We don't know how to handle this. Fail the pipeline
        * `DATAFLOW_UNSUPPORTED` - We wish to copy via dataflow, but the writer version is unsupported. Fail the
          pipeline
        * `DATAFLOW_SUPPORTED` - We wish to copy via dataflow, and the writer version is supported. Call
          `dcsazure_Databricks_to_Databricks_copy_df`
        * `ACTIVITY_UNSUPPORTED` - We wish to copy via copy activity, but the writer version is unsupported. Fail the
          pipeline
        * `ACTIVITY_SUPPORTED` - We wish to copy via copy activity, and the writer version is supported. Use copy
          activity to copy between source and sink tables


### Variables

If you have configured your database using the metadata store scripts, these variables will not need editing. If you
have customized your metadata store, then these variables may need editing.

* `P_METADATA_SCHEMA` - This is the schema to be used for in the self-hosted AzureSQL database for storing metadata (default `dbo`)
* `P_METADATA_RULESET_TABLE` - This is the table to be used for storing the discovered ruleset (default `discovered_ruleset`)
* `P_METADATA_SOURCE_TO_SINK_MAPPING_TABLE` - This is the table in the metadata schema that will contain the data
  mapping, defining where unmasked data lives, and where masked data should go (default `adf_data_mapping`)
* `P_METADATA_ADF_TYPE_MAPPING_TABLE` - This is the table that maps from data types in various datasets to the
  associated datatype required in ADF as needed for the pipeline (default `adf_type_mapping`)
* `P_BLOB_STORE_STAGING_STORAGE_PATH` - This is a path that specifies where we should stage data as it moves through the
  pipeline and should reference a storage container in a storage account (default `staging-container`)

The following variables are used by the pipeline and should not be edited unless directed.
* `unmaskable_tables` - Array - Default value `[]`, this is used internally to track the tables we couldn't mask
* `writerVersion` - Integer - Default value `5`, this is the value of the maximum writer version supported by ADF's
internal Spark cluster
* `readerVersion` - Integer - Default value `2`, this is the value of the maximum reader version supported by ADF's
internal Spark cluster

### Parameters

* `P_METADATA_SCHEMA` - String - This is the schema to be used for in the self-hosted AzureSQL database for storing metadata (default `dbo`)
* `P_METADATA_RULESET_TABLE` - String - This is the table to be used for storing the discovered ruleset (default `discovered_ruleset`)
* `P_METADATA_SOURCE_TO_SINK_MAPPING_TABLE` - String - This is the table used for determining where data that is run through the pipeline starts and ends (default `adf_data_mapping`)
* `P_METADATA_ADF_TYPE_MAPPING_TABLE` - String - This is the table used for determining how Azure Data Factory should interpret data that flows through the pipeline (default `adf_type_mapping`)
* `P_COPY_UNMASKED_TABLES` - Bool - This enables the pipeline to copy data from source to destination when a mapping exists, but no algorithms have been defined (default `false`)
* `P_SOURCE_DB` - String - This is the source database (catalog) in Databricks that contains the unmasked data
* `P_SINK_DB` - String - This is the sink database (catalog) in Databricks that will serve as a destination for masked data
* `P_SOURCE_SCHEMA` - String - This is the source schema in Databricks (that lives under the specified catalog) and that contains the unmasked data
* `P_SINK_SCHEMA` - String - This is the sink schema in Databricks (that lives under the specified catalog) and that will serve as a destination for masked data
* `P_BLOB_STORE_STAGING_STORAGE_PATH` - String - This is a storage container that can be used by Databricks as a staging area
* `P_COPY_USE_DATAFLOW` - Bool - This enables the pipeline to use a data flow to copy data from source to sink when there is no data to mask (this value does not matter if `P_COPY_UNMASKED_TABLES` is `false`)

