# dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_mask_pl
## Delphix Compliance Services (DCS) for Azure - AzureSQL to AzureSQL Masking Pipeline

This pipeline masks data from your source AzureSQL DB and stores the masked data in another AzureSQL DB.

### Prerequisites

1. Configure the hosted metadata database and associated Azure SQL service (version `V2024.08.25.0`+).
2. Configure the DCS for Azure REST service.
3. Configure the Azure SQL DB service associated with your AzureSQL source data.
4. Configure the Azure SQL DB service associated with your AzureSQL sink data (if required).


### Importing
There are several linked services that will need to be selected in order to perform the masking of your AzureSQL instance.

These linked services types are needed for the following steps:

`Azure SQL` (source) - Linked service associated with AzureSQL source data. This will be used for the
following steps:
* dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_mask_df/Source (dataFlow)
* dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_copy_df/SourceData (dataFlow)

`Azure SQL` (sink) - Linked service associated with AzureSQL sink data. This will be used for the
following steps:
* dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_mask_df/Sink (dataFlow)
* dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_copy_df/SinkData (dataFlow)

`Azure SQL` (metadata) - Linked service associated with your hosted metadata store. This will be used for the following
steps:
* dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_metadata_mask_ds (Azure SQL Database dataset)
* dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_mask_params_df/Ruleset (dataFlow)
* dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_mask_params_df/TypeMapping (dataFlow)

`REST` (DCS for Azure) - Linked service associated with calling DCS for Azure. This will be used for the following
steps:
* dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_mask_df (dataFlow)

### How It Works
* Select Tables Without Required Masking. This is done by querying the metadata store.
  * Filter If Copy Unmask Enabled. This is done by applying a filter based on the value of `P_COPY_UNMASKED_TABLES`
    * For Each Table With No Masking. Provided we have any rows left after applying the filter
      * Get Sink Table Details No Masking. Query AzureSQL for sink table details
      * Get Sink Table Metadata No Masking. Query Metadata store to construct metadata information for sink table
      * If Copy Write Supported. Evaluate whether we can copy data to the sink table
        * If true, the writer version is supported, copy data by calling
          `dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_copy_df`
        * If false, the writer version is unsupported, fail the pipeline
* Select Tables That Require Masking. This is done by querying the metadata store. This will provided a list of tables
  that need masking, and if they need to be masked leveraging conditional algorithms, the set of required filters.
  * For Each Table To Mask
    * For each table that requires masking:
      * Get the source table's metadata
      * Get the sink table's details
        * If the table can be written to (i.e. the Data Factory backend supports this table writer version)
          * Get the metadata needed for the sink table
          * If no filter needs to be applied:
            * Call the `dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_unfiltered_mask_params_df` data flow to generate masking
              parameters
            * Call the `dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_unfiltered_mask_df` data flow, passing in parameters as
              generated by the generate masking parameters dataflow
          * If a filter needs to be applied:
            * Call the `dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_filtered_mask_params_df` data flow to generate masking
              parameters using the filter alias
            * Call the `dcsazure_AzureSQL_to_AzureSQL_filtered_mask_df` data flow, passing in parameters as
              generated by the generate masking parameters dataflow and the filter as determined by the output of For
              Each Table To Mask
        * If the table cannot be written to (i.e. the Data Factory backend doesn't support this table writer version)
          * Provide a `400` status error code to indicate the failure of this table (with the appropriate message)
* Note that there is a deactivated activity `Test Filter Conditions` that exists in order to support importing the
  filter test utility dataflow, this is making it easier to test writing filter conditions leveraging a dataflow debug
  session

### Variables

If you have configured your database using the metadata store scripts, these variables will not need editing. If you
have customized your metadata store, then these variables may need editing.

* `METADATA_SCHEMA` - This is the schema to be used for in the self-hosted AzureSQL database for storing metadata (default `dbo`)
* `METADATA_RULESET_TABLE` - This is the table to be used for storing the discovered ruleset (default `discovered_ruleset`)
* `METADATA_SOURCE_TO_SINK_MAPPING_TABLE` - This is the table in the metadata schema that will contain the data
  mapping, defining where unmasked data lives, and where masked data should go (default `adf_data_mapping`)
* `METADATA_ADF_TYPE_MAPPING_TABLE` - This is the table that maps from data types in various datasets to the
  associated datatype required in ADF as needed for the pipeline (default `adf_type_mapping`)
* `BLOB_STORE_STAGING_STORAGE_PATH` - This is a path that specifies where we should stage data as it moves through the
  pipeline and should reference a storage container in a storage account (default `staging-container`)
* `DATASET` - This is the way this data set is referred to in the metadata store (default `ADLS`)
* `CONDITIONAL_MASKING_RESERVED_CHARACTER` - This is a string (preferably a character) reserved as for shorthand for
  when referring to the key column when defining filter conditions, in the pipeline this will be expanded out to use the
  ADF syntax for referencing the key column (default `%`)
* `TARGET_BATCH_SIZE` - This is the target number of rows per batch (default `2000`)

The following variables are used by the pipeline and should not be edited unless directed.
* `writerVersion` - Integer - Default value `5`, this is the value of the maximum writer version supported by ADF's
internal Spark cluster
* `readerVersion` - Integer - Default value `2`, this is the value of the maximum reader version supported by ADF's
internal Spark cluster

### Parameters

* `P_COPY_UNMASKED_TABLES` - Bool - This enables the pipeline to copy data from source to destination when a mapping
exists, but no algorithms have been defined (default `false`)
* `P_FAIL_ON_NONCONFORMANT_DATA` - Bool - This will fail the pipeline if non-conformant data is encountered (default
`true`)
* `P_SOURCE_CATALOG` - String - This is the source catalog in AzureSQL that contains the unmasked data
* `P_SINK_CATALOG` - String - This is the sink catalog in AzureSQL that will serve as a destination for masked data
* `P_SOURCE_SCHEMA` - String - This is the source schema in AzureSQL (that lives under the specified source catalog)
and that contains the unmasked data
* `P_SINK_SCHEMA` - String - This is the sink schema in AzureSQL (that lives under the specified sink catalog) and
that will serve as a destination for masked data

